WC-2683 Provide documentation for asset upload (#18058)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/static-assets/direct-upload.mdx

sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Workers API
    User<<->>Workers API: Submit manifest<br/>POST /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName/assets-upload-session
    User<<->>Workers API: Upload files<br/>POST /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/assets/upload?base64=true
    User<<->>Workers API: Upload script version<br/>PUT /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName
```

The asset upload flow can be distilled into three distinct phases: registration of a manifest, uploading of the assets, and deployment of the Worker.

## `Upload manifest`

The asset manifest is a ledger which keeps track of files we want to use in our Worker. This manifest is used to track assets associated with each Worker version, and eliminate the need to upload unchanged files prior to a new upload.

The manifest upload request describes each file which we intend to upload. Each file is its own key representing the file path and name, and is an object which contains metadata about the file.

`hash` represents the first 32 characters of the file’s hash, while `size` is the size (in bytes) of the file.

```bash title="Example manifest upload request"

> curl -X POST https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName/assets-upload-session \

Reviewer: This API isn't in our API docs?

Are we adding it?

Reviewer 2: Already merged — it'll be going out on the next release: https://cflare.co/asset-upload-api

Reviewer 2: Take 2: https://cflare.co/assets-upload-api-followup

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Direct Uploads
sidebar:
  order: 11
head: []
description: Upload assets through the Workers API.
---

import {
	Badge,
	Description,
	FileTree,
	InlineBadge,
	Render,
	TabItem,
	Tabs,
} from "~/components";

:::note

> Directly uploading assets via Worker APIs is an advanced approach that most users won't need. Instead, users are encouraged to interact with these APIs through [Wrangler](/workers/static-assets/get-started/#1-create-a-new-worker-project-using-the-cli).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Directly uploading assets via Worker APIs is an advanced approach that most users will not need. Instead, we encourage users to interact with these APIs through [Wrangler](/workers/static-assets/get-started/#1-create-a-new-worker-project-using-the-cli).
```

:::

The Workers API empowers users to upload and serve static assets. Users can also fetch assets through an optional [assets binding](/workers/static-assets/binding/). This guide will describe the process for attaching assets to your Worker directly through the Workers API.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Workers API
    User<<->>Workers API: Submit manifest<br/>POST /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName/assets-upload-session
    User<<->>Workers API: Upload files<br/>POST /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/assets/upload?base64=true
    User<<->>Workers API: Upload script version<br/>PUT /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName
```

> The asset upload flow can be distilled into three distinct phases: registration of a manifest, uploading of the assets, and deployment of the Worker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The asset upload flow can be distilled into three distinct phases:

1. Registration of a manifest
2. Upload of the assets
3. Deployment of the Worker
```

## `Upload manifest`

The asset manifest is a ledger which keeps track of files we want to use in our Worker. This manifest is used to track assets associated with each Worker version, and eliminate the need to upload unchanged files prior to a new upload.

The manifest upload request describes each file which we intend to upload. Each file is its own key representing the file path and name, and is an object which contains metadata about the file.

`hash` represents the first 32 characters of the file's hash, while `size` is the size (in bytes) of the file.

```bash title="Example manifest upload request"
curl -X POST https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName/assets-upload-session \
 --header 'content-type: application/json' \
 --header 'Authorization: Bearer API_TOKEN' \
 --data '{ "manifest": { "/filea.html": { "hash": "08f1dfda4574284ab3c21666d1", "size": 12 }, "/fileb.html": { "hash": "4f1c1af44620d531446ceef93f", "size": 23 } } }'
```

The resulting response will contain a JWT, which provides authentication during file upload. The JWT is valid for one hour.

> In addition to the JWT, the response instructs users how to most optimally batch upload their files. These instructions are encoded in the "buckets" field. Each array in buckets contains a list of file hashes which should be uploaded together.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the JWT, the response instructs users how to optimally batch upload their files. These instructions are encoded in the "buckets" field. Each array in buckets contains a list of file hashes which should be uploaded together.
```

```bash title="Example manifest upload response"
{
  "result": {
    "jwt": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0YWdpbmcuYXBpLndvcmtlcnMuY2xvdWRmbGFyZS5jb20iLCJhdWQiOiJodHRwczovL3N0YWdpbmcuYXBpLndvcmtlcnMuY2xvdWRmbGFyZS5jb20iLCJleHAiOjE3MzA4MzY4MzksIm5iZiI6MTczMDgzMzIzOSwiaWF0IjoxNzMwODMzMjM5LCJtYW5pZmVzdF9pZCI6IjhkNzRmMzQ0LTcyNmQtNDY1Yi04MjE0LTJmYjMwMTE5NWE5YSJ9.Z3g0RNYshjMFHnM8o4X15PRpIAkgkuztIKOfmEW3ZfkmrDFykZFizclBGJKFoP0eZ1N9ODyFNUkfeikjUDvkAQ",
    "buckets": [
      [
        "08f1dfda4574284ab3c21666d1",
				"4f1c1af44620d531446ceef93f"
      ]
    ]
  },
  "success": true,
  "errors": null,
  "messages": null
}
```

### `Limitations`

- Each file must be under 25 MiB
- The overall manifest must not contain more than 20,000 file entries

## `Upload Static Assets`

> Users can upload assets by POSTing to https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/:accountID/workers/assets/upload?base64=true. This endpoint requires files be uploaded using multipart/form data. The contents of each file must be base64 encoded, and the `base64` query param must be set to `true`.

Author: Will replace this link with a hyperlink to the api docs once the open api schema for this is merged (https://bitbucket.cfdata.org/projects/EW/repos/edgeworker-config-service/pull-requests/6133/overview)

The authorization header must be provided as a bearer token, using the JWT (upload token) from the aforementioned manifest upload call.

Once every file in the manifest has been uploaded, a status code of 201 will be returned, with the `jwt` field present, and containing a final "completion" token which can be used in a deployment of a Worker with assets. This token is valid for 1 hour.

## `Create/Deploy New Version`

> [Script](https://developers.cloudflare.com/api/operations/worker-script-upload-worker-module) and [version](https://developers.cloudflare.com/api/operations/worker-versions-upload-version) upload endpoints require specifying a metadata part in the form data. If this is a new Worker, we can provide the completion token from the previous (upload assets) step. This token will be validated by the backend to ensure that all assets have been uploaded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Script](/api/operations/worker-script-upload-worker-module) and [version](/api/operations/worker-versions-upload-version) upload endpoints require specifying a metadata part in the form data. If this is a new Worker, we can provide the completion token from the previous (upload assets) step. This token will be validated by the backend to ensure that all assets have been uploaded.
```

```bash title="Example Worker Metadata Specifying Completion Token"
{
  "main_module": "main.js",
  "assets": {
    "jwt": "<completion_token>"
  },
  "compatibility_date": "2021-09-14"
}
```

If this is a worker which already exists with assets, and you wish to just re-use the existing set of assets, we do not have to specify the completion token again. Instead, we can provide the `keep_assets` metadata configuration.

```bash title="Example Worker Metadata Specifying keep_assets"
{
  "main_module": "main.js",
  "keep_assets": true,
  "compatibility_date": "2021-09-14"
}
```

> Asset [routing configuration](/workers/static-assets/routing/#routing-configuration) can be provided in the assets object, such as html_handling and not_found_handling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asset [routing configuration](/workers/static-assets/routing/#routing-configuration) can be provided in the assets object, such as `html_handling` and `not_found_handling`.
```

		}
	}
	throw new Error("unknown fileHash");
}

// Function to upload a batch of files using the JWT from the first response
async function uploadFilesBatch(
	jwt: string,
	fileHashes: string[][],
	fileMetadata: Record<string, FileMetadata>,
): Promise<string> {
	const form = new FormData();

	fileHashes.forEach(async (bucket) => {
		bucket.forEach((fileHash) => {
			const fullPath = findMatch(fileHash, fileMetadata);
			const relPath = filesDirectory + "/" + path.basename(fullPath);
			const fileBuffer = fs.readFileSync(relPath);
			const base64Data = fileBuffer.toString("base64"); // Convert file to Base64

			form.append(
				fileHash,
				new File([base64Data], fileHash, {
					type: "text/html", // Modify Content-Type header based on type of file
				}),
				fileHash,
			);
		});

		const response = await fetch(
			`https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/${accountId}/workers/assets/upload?base64=true`,
			{
				method: "POST",
				headers: {
					Authorization: `Bearer ${jwt}`,
				},
				body: form,
			},
		);

		const data = (await response.json()) as UploadResponse;
		if (data && data.result.jwt) {
			return { completionToken: data.result.jwt };
		}
	});

> 	throw new Error("Should have received completion token");

Author: This function takes in ALL buckets, and iterates over them until it gets a completion token; if we get to this point, we've done all the file uploads, but no token came back from AUS. Think this is right!

> 	throw new Error("Should have received completion token");

Reviewer 2: Does the `return` on L286 break out of the `forEach`es? I don't think so..?

https://workers.cloudflare.com/playground#LYVwNgLglgDghgJwgegGYHsHALQBM4RwDcABAEbogB2+CAngLzbPYDqApmQNJQQBimYACFKNRHQASAeQAaEgB4AZAJIA1GQAUA1gHchG4AHYAXCxYduvAVhHVak2QpXrteg4YCwAKADC6KhDsAdgAIlAAzjDo4bxQ-sYkGFh4BMQkVHDA7AwARPiEAHQAVuE5pKhQYEGZ2XmpxaXefgFBENgAKnQw7AlwMDBgUADGBHFUyEVwAG5w4UMIsBAA1MDouODs3t7s8lFIJLjsqHDgECQA3l4AkBlZCTkAovKZA+wkAIIayjkANNeEAHNwgkANo5HYvKq-Eg5PpQaE5BDsSL+cLsHIAXT+AF8iF5vGZmBYePxBLYxPRpHIlGpNLp9EYmv5AsEwiiYtB4olBClCKRbrUoDQdg0yolKtUsrkhYd5KKmS1gp1ur1+oMRpzxpMZnMFjBlqt1lUtl4oMA9mcdOwwEN0FlEgg7TCrTa7ewCgALCDAMBlLxeZAAKkDXhIgZIAAEIF12IdUBcpGQiuwhhBsSQHlQpqHA8h-TsLQcjidIBdrkGQ1cw5H4AhMhcAErsACOIGRaZISNb7eu1Yjtfr50zU3TQWzVfD-cQg6eKZAmuagXkHdT8l7k6REBACCo4QuGkdwAi7AAPE2Ubv2AA+bHrvNXWZ0KhDRLsCBDD0ACi7bfCEB+JBjgBq4AJRllcVy2ruZyIAgJAMCQIIAORwEhAFIWQaEkEhQxIRi-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-PsABBnLzoUt8Uf3tFgM6B0AcUBIqmYDfwgKvZSbxnpvDIN-ca0BDIkBADAEgcAL5kwpiHGmZFbTUAgAUCOash4egxleVgHoCAMT3DvDuCAAD8XN8FDxHhfd4JBkHG1QW8Xe+9SEkAAFLTDgAAZXmIsG6hwSB0EoCQHQCxAhzxIcQmgEtRGUDglaMgF8OTsCQnuCQ7R2gaEynWVAFQXx+z-sTb+QomF51YZowCuAXrNXQBqMYZCl5z3YBfHQmAwC4AfmAcmsMYFiJACvBxGo3i2hEYbaIbwgGKO3IBGgsC0RMwYnxTAhw4JAIvkiC8y9YkgOACQVYNNWzDC0AAnB9CuINQIe0egDEzhBKZtaVANCCERyqVxKQfEmnNSOGcCICCY6QjYRQmRAy9wIGoFQIU0d-Bz0GeogoJAyriJGFQC+sZeANOavtbeiS0QxKlp2ZEpw9xSyRMsh4fszggJIPAZSCCKBbxCcgOE58uKX2ltVdAgk7kQnNFUWmYy5G4AUX7QxjNWidkoIEUuKy1kGQQWAcIq8tkQAvnciJMTV6HIkcQiANjvIxCuvs5eZAFiBKUfxZcDFDjrViYMVA7pKlV2APXLqXMvY+3qi7SKdVLJmGsqSGwdlxAORpC4ek7gUoeTZN5WIXJ-K8iCl9HIa1ApigqFUWKV10BkGSm5RUaUYyqgGMMUY-gJioqoCac4OQwoPKgGQSovA6AAH18jomMDkAATNjX1AAWbA2MADMIbDC-AdXaJ1LrBjRndSHIEORjBgioGsdgJR3WOoIJiH46r67usNBsFNOQZQihKDkbEgrzCcBJNYYQYrKSOElXSNwRhmDeCAA

> 	throw new Error("Should have received completion token");

Author: Thanks Greg for the help! We got it 💪

}

async function scriptUpload(completionToken: string): Promise<void> {
	const form = new FormData();

	// Configure metadata
	form.append(
		"metadata",
		JSON.stringify({
			main_module: "index.mjs",
			compatibility_date: "2022-03-11",
			assets: {
				jwt: completionToken, // Provide the completion token from file uploads
			},
			bindings: [{ name: "ASSETS", type: "assets" }], // Optional assets binding to fetch from user worker
		}),
	);

	// Configure (optional) user worker
	form.append(

> 		"@index.js",

Author: Ah, yes indeed-y. Thank you!

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Direct Uploads
sidebar:
  order: 11
head: []
description: Upload assets through the Workers API.
---

import {
	Badge,
	Description,
	FileTree,
	InlineBadge,
	Render,
	TabItem,
	Tabs,
} from "~/components";

:::note

Directly uploading assets via APIs is an advanced approach that most users will not need. Instead, we encourage users to deploy your Worker with [Wrangler](/workers/static-assets/get-started/#1-create-a-new-worker-project-using-the-cli).

:::

Our API empowers users to upload and include static assets as part of a Worker. These static assets can be served for free, and additionally, users can also fetch assets through an optional [assets binding](/workers/static-assets/binding/) to power more advanced applications. This guide will describe the process for attaching assets to your Worker directly with the API.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Workers API

>     User<<->>Workers API: Submit manifest<br/>POST /client/v4/accounts/:accountId/workers/scripts/:scriptName/assets-upload-session

Reviewer 2: Use the same placeholder syntax as the cURL? Idk. whatever :)
